README.md, before:

## Docker with Directus / MySQL / Adminer / GraphQL

This package contains everything you need to get up and running with Directus CMS with a MySQL backend, plus an interactive GraphQL playground to help you develop your API queries.

**Requirements:** you need [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and [Node](https://nodejs.org) installed on your machine:

- [Install Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)  
- [Install Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

### Quick Install:

**The easiest way to get up and running is to open a terminal session and run:**

```bash
npx create-directus-docker@latest <my-project>
```

Then, just follow the on-screen prompts.

### Manual Install

As an alternative, you can install this package by following these steps. Once you've installed Node and Docker, and have Docker Desktop running on your machine:

1. Open a terminal session:  
    **Mac:** Go to /Applications/Utilities then double-click Terminal.  
    **Windows:** Click 'Start' taskbar button, Select 'All apps', scroll down and select 'Terminal'
2. CD into the parent directory where you'd like to install this, ie `cd '~/Documents/My-Folder'`.
3. From there, run:  
    `git clone https://github.com/rollmug/directus-mysql-template.git`  
    OR, if you don't have git installed, [manually download it here](https://github.com/rollmug/directus-mysql-template/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) and unzip it.
4. Navigate into the folder you just downloaded, ie `cd 'directus-mysql-template'`

**Configure your Directus/MySQL setup:**

1. Within the directus-mysql-template directory, run `npm install`
2. Lastly, run `npm start`. The wizard will walk you through the config, and automatically launch all containers for you.

*Note that you'll only have to do these two steps the first time you run this.*

### Starting/stopping with Docker Compose

To **stop** your running containers, simply run `docker compose down` in your terminal from within the project directory. All containers will be stopped.

To **restart** your stopped containers, you can let the helper app do it for you:

`npm start`

Or you can follow this sequence:

`docker compose up mysql -d`

Then wait 10-20 seconds (for MySQL to boot), then type:

`docker compose up -d`

**Boom!** You're done. Now you can access the URLS from here:

Directus CMS: http://localhost:8055  
GraphQL Playground: http://localhost:4000/graphql  
Adminer (for MySQL): http://localhost:8080

**Check on running containers:**

Simply run `docker compose ps` to see the status of running containers. Or, run `docker compose ps -a` to see all containers, running or not.

## CORS problems on localhost

When using the GraphiQL playground on localhost, you'll run into some browser problems related to CORS. Here's how to get around it:

**Safari:**

1. Enable the developer menu by opening up Settings > Advanced, then check "Show Develop bar in menu"
2. Click the Develop menu and check "Disable Cross-Origin Restrictions"

**Chrome**

Temporarily Disable CORS in Chrome (MacOS):

1. Quit Chrome
2. Open terminal and run:

`open -n -a "/Applications/Google Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google Chrome" --args --user-data-dir="/tmp/chrome_dev_test" --disable-web-security`

**Windows:**

1. Right click on desktop, add new shortcut
2. Add the target as "[PATH_TO_CHROME]\chrome.exe" --disable-web-security --disable-gpu --user-data-dir=~/chromeTemp
3. Click OK

**Firefox:**

For Firefox you can simply install [CORS Everywhere](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/cors-everywhere/) addon.

### Examples of getting an auth token for API:

curl -X POST localhost:8055/auth/login -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"email":"you@email.com","password":"your-password"}'

curl -X POST localhost:8055/auth/refresh -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"refresh_token": "W5L70MBXKElx5ZVZwxmQVG8qdVjukiRVIwD5FYG7tCPyyuCM_I3IyCsYnFhMUrRi", "mode": "json"}'

Commit message:

automatically seed db on first run

README.md, after:

## Docker with Directus / MySQL / Adminer / GraphQL

This package contains everything you need to get up and running with Directus CMS with a MySQL backend, plus an interactive GraphQL playground to help you develop your API queries.

**Requirements:** you need [Docker](https://www.docker.com) and [Node](https://nodejs.org) installed on your machine:

- [Install Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)  
- [Install Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

### Quick Install:

**The easiest way to get up and running is to open a terminal session and run:**

```bash
npx create-directus-docker@latest <my-project>
```

Then, just follow the on-screen prompts.

### Manual Install

As an alternative, you can install this package by following these steps. Once you've installed Node and Docker, and have Docker Desktop running on your machine:

1. Open a terminal session:  
    **Mac:** Go to /Applications/Utilities then double-click Terminal.  
    **Windows:** Click 'Start' taskbar button, Select 'All apps', scroll down and select 'Terminal'
2. CD into the parent directory where you'd like to install this, ie `cd '~/Documents/My-Folder'`.
3. From there, run:  
    `git clone https://github.com/rollmug/directus-mysql-template.git`  
    OR, if you don't have git installed, [manually download it here](https://github.com/rollmug/directus-mysql-template/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) and unzip it.
4. Navigate into the folder you just downloaded, ie `cd 'directus-mysql-template'`

**Configure your Directus/MySQL setup:**

1. Within the directus-mysql-template directory, run `npm install`
2. Lastly, run `npm start`. The wizard will walk you through the config, and automatically launch all containers for you.

*Note that you'll only have to do these two steps the first time you run this.*

### Seeding MySQL data

If you want to seed your database with data on first launch, place your .sql file(s) in the "init" directory at the root of this package. MySQL will run any files in this directory the first time it launches.

### Starting/stopping with Docker Compose

To **stop** your running containers, simply run `docker compose down` in your terminal from within the project directory. All containers will be stopped.

To **restart** your stopped containers, you can let the helper app do it for you:

`npm start`

Or you can follow this sequence:

`docker compose up mysql -d`

Then wait 10-20 seconds (for MySQL to boot), then type:

`docker compose up -d`

**Boom!** You're done. Now you can access the URLS from here:

Directus CMS: http://localhost:8055  
GraphQL Playground: http://localhost:4000/graphql  
Adminer (for MySQL): http://localhost:8080

**Check on running containers:**

Simply run `docker compose ps` to see the status of running containers. Or, run `docker compose ps -a` to see all containers, running or not.

## CORS problems on localhost

When using the GraphiQL playground on localhost, you'll run into some browser problems related to CORS. Here's how to get around it:

**Safari:**

1. Enable the developer menu by opening up Settings > Advanced, then check "Show Develop bar in menu"
2. Click the Develop menu and check "Disable Cross-Origin Restrictions"

**Chrome**

Temporarily Disable CORS in Chrome (MacOS):

1. Quit Chrome
2. Open terminal and run:

`open -n -a "/Applications/Google Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google Chrome" --args --user-data-dir="/tmp/chrome_dev_test" --disable-web-security`

**Windows:**

1. Right click on desktop, add new shortcut
2. Add the target as "[PATH_TO_CHROME]\chrome.exe" --disable-web-security --disable-gpu --user-data-dir=~/chromeTemp
3. Click OK

**Firefox:**

For Firefox you can simply install [CORS Everywhere](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/cors-everywhere/) addon.

### Examples of getting an auth token for API:

curl -X POST localhost:8055/auth/login -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"email":"you@email.com","password":"your-password"}'

curl -X POST localhost:8055/auth/refresh -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"refresh_token": "W5L70MBXKElx5ZVZwxmQVG8qdVjukiRVIwD5FYG7tCPyyuCM_I3IyCsYnFhMUrRi", "mode": "json"}'
